On the sidelines of the 8th Korea-Japan-China Summit in Chengdu, China, President Moon Jae-in and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe held a summit for 45 minutes from 2:00 p.m. today (local time).

In regard to Japan’s export control measures, President Moon began by saying “Japan’s imposed restrictions on exports to Korea must be restored to the level prior to July 1.” President Moon also asked Prime Minister Abe to take extraordinary interest in the issue and make a definite decision. 

Prime Minister Abe said that he has heard that the first talks over export control policies in three and a half years were held in a very constructive manner, proposing that the two countries’ export authorities resolve issues through dialogue. 

Regarding the issue of forced labor, the two leaders confirmed their different stances but reached consensus on the need to resolve the matter through dialogue. Of note, the two leaders expressed a mutual desire to see the issue resolved at the earliest possible date and to meet one another more frequently. 

Exchanging opinions on the recent grave situation on the Korean Peninsula, the two leaders stressed the importance of close coordination and communication between Korea and Japan and among Korea, the United States and Japan. 

Prime Minister Abe asked for the Korean Government’s continued interest in and support for the issue of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea, and President Moon replied that he will continue to support Japan’s efforts.   

Agreeing on the importance of people-to-people exchanges in sports with respect to the upcoming Tokyo Summer Olympics, the two leaders expressed a willingness to devote themselves to getting more of their fellow citizens to open their hearts and minds to one another.       

In closing, Prime Minister Abe said the two leaders concurred that the two countries’ relationship is exceedingly important as neighboring countries. He went on to propose that they resolve differences through dialogue. President Moon said, “Prime Minister Abe and I should offer encouragement so that working-level consultations proceed smoothly and rapidly.” He added, “I’d like to see our meeting this time serve as an opportunity to offer the peoples of our two countries hope that issues can be settled through dialogue.”